---
# Feel free to add content and custom Front Matter to this file.
# To modify the layout, see https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults

layout: home
---

**Abstract**:

Recent advances in deep learning have offered new ways to build models addressing a wide variety of tasks through the optimization of a set of parameters based on minimizing a cost function. Amongst these techniques, probabilistic generative models have yielded impressive advances in text, image and sound generation. However, musical audio signal generation remains a challenging problem. This comes from the complexity of audio signals themselves, since a single second of raw audio spans tens of thousands of individual samples. Modeling musical signals is even more challenging as important information are structured across different time scales, from micro (e.g. timbre, transient, phase) to macro (e.g. genre, tempo, structure) information. Modeling every scale at once would require large architectures, precluding the use of resulting models in real time setups for computational complexity reasons.

In this thesis, we study how a hierarchical approach to audio modeling can address the musical signal modeling task, while offering different levels of control to the user. Our main hypothesis is that extracting different representation levels of an audio signal allows to abstract the complexity of lower levels for each modeling stage. This would eventually allow the use of lightweight architectures, each modeling a single audio scale. We start by addressing raw audio modeling by proposing an audio model combining Variational Auto Encoders and Generative Adversarial Networks,  yielding high-quality 48kHz neural audio synthesis, while being 20 times faster than real time on CPU. Then, we study how autoregressive models can be used to understand the temporal behavior of the representation yielded by this low-level audio model, using optional additional conditioning signals such as acoustic descriptors or tempo. Finally, we propose a method for using all the proposed models directly on audio streams, allowing their use in realtime applications that we developed during this thesis. We conclude by presenting various creative collaborations led in parallel of this work with several composers and musicians, directly integrating the current state of the proposed technologies inside musical pieces.